Did Howes die in 1996?- yes/no question - question can be answered purely based on the text- less than 100% confidence- factual- point in time- event-related- general user would ask this question- cannot be answered from a general-purpose knowledge sourceHow did cocoa bean sales in Bahia in June/July compare toAugust/September 1987?- requires a narrative for an answer- comparison between two points in time- business type of userWhen does the temporao normally arrive in Brazil?- can be gotten from an encyclopedia- cannot be answered by this article- repetitive eventHow many British citizens have been reported kidnapped by the KhmerRouge during the last ten years?- enumeration and counting- possible answers: dozens, fewer than five (range)- relative time range (interval)How many people in Las Vegas work for Citibank?- 2,000- question doesn't specify time frameWhen is the Summerlin development in Las Vegas expected to becompleted? - hypothetical event in the futureHow long does it take on average to build a 500-room hotel in LasVegas?- typical event vs. single eventWhat did Nhek Bunchhay do when first prime minister Ranariddh wasoverthrown? Who is/was Christopher Howes?Who were competing in the retail market in Las Vegas in the lateeighties?Did others defect after Ieng Sary?How much has Las Vegas grown in population since 1980?When was the period of major growth in Las Vegas?What was the impact of Howes's slaying on Anglo-Cambodian relations?Was Pol Pot still in power in Cambodia in December 1998?How old was Christopher Howes when he was kidnapped in Cambodia?Who was the prime minister of Cambodia at the time of the unsuccessfulcoup in mid-1997?Was Christopher Howes still alive in February of 1996?How old is the oldest hotel in Las Vegas?What event led to the surge in population in Las Vegas in theeighties? Have the remains of Christopher Howes been found?Where is Christopher Howes?Where is the Cambodian resistance force now looking for Howes'sremains?